---
title: "Deploying Quartz to the Web"
tags:
- setup
---

Seminar: 13566 Kunst und Ökologie in Ostasien
Lecturer: Univ.-Prof. Dr. Juliane Noth
Wintersemester 2021/2022
Freie Universität Berlin






Semester Paper
The Ecological View embedded in the Early Spring by Guo Xi (ca. 1000-1090) 
in the 11th century

Furong Jin

Content

I.	Introduction	1
II.	Observation of Nature and Environment	3
III.	The Dao and Anthropomorphism Embedded in the Early Spring	13
IV.	Conclusion	15
V.	Bibliography	i
VI.	Figures	iii

Introduction

“This mode is based on the dominion of man over nature. […] It is the necessity of bringing a natural force under the control of society, of economizing, of appropriating or subduing it on a large scale by the work of man’s hand, that first plays the decisive part in the history of industry.” Karl Marx (1818-1883) alluded to a certain perspective that describes a mode of interaction between human beings and Nature in modern society when he articulated the surplus-value of Capitalism. In this mode, Nature (especially the soil) is seen as an objective natural resource that is indispensable to Capitalist production and accumulation and should be conquered by the humans. Since the contemporary generation is accustomed to the view of an objective Nature, is there any different perspective describing the relationship between humans and Nature? In other words, what was the ecological view of people before the industrial revolution and Capitalism? However, to answer such a huge question is not the intention of this paper, nevertheless, by transforming abstract ideas into visual signals we could find some evidence referring to this question in the strong Nature-related genre of art — the landscape painting. The representational monumental landscape painting Early Spring by Guo Xi (ca. 1000-1087) from the Northern Song dynasty (960-1127) could be a suitable example for the research. In this article, I will discuss how Guo Xi applied the theories in Linquan gaozhi in the painting to create an ideal landscape and which ecological view was conveyed by Early Spring, namely what relationship between humans and Nature the Early Spring presented. What role did the ideologies in the 11th century play in the painting? In the book Beyond Representation (1992), Wen C. Fong has outlined the development of the monumental landscape and the fundamental definitions in the Neo-Confucianism that influenced the painting style in the 11th century. The discussion of the Early Spring is under the premise of these fundamental information. Murashige Standly has given an explicit analysis of the Early Spring in the Rhythm, Order, Change, and Nature in Guo Xi’s Early Spring (1995), of which the title of the article summaries the main themes. Many opinions in this article are based on Murashige’s research. However, research in this article rather focuses on the analysis of the observation of the natural environment and its interaction with the human in the painting, while Standly’s article predominantly discusses the artistic conceptions in the painting. The most frequent method used in the article is to compare the pictorial details with the primary sources, especially Linquan gaozhi, to prove the intention of the painter and the meaning of the objects and activities. The article is divided in two parts. In the first part, I will analyze the main function of each main component of the landscape, i.e., the mountains, the trees, the water, the humans, and their correlation under the context of geomancy in focusing on the content of the painting. In the second part, I will specifically discuss the rhetoric term of anthropomorphism of the landscape under the influence of the Daoist principles Neo-Confucian philosophy that is embedded in the painting to reveal the understanding of Nature and man for Guo Xi as a painter in the 11th century. 


Observation of Nature and Environment

The earliest direct record of the Early Spring (Fig.1) was in the Shuhua ji (书画记, Compilation of Calligraphies and Paintings) by Wu Qizhen, a connoisseur in 17th century:
 “Guo Heyang’s Spring Snow on silk, two large (scrolls). In good condition, the brush technique is delicate, the artistic conception is vivid, (the painting) acquired the nature (or essence of spring), (and) pertains to the top class. The recognition of eight small standard characters, said, Early Spring Ren Zi Year (1072) Guo Xi Painted.”
After this, Gu Fu (act. in 17th century) recorded the painting in his collection of calligraphies and paintings Pingsheng zhuangguan (平生壮观 Lifetime Spectacle) with the present title: 
“Early Spring, double-pieced silk, large size, (with) vivid figures, secluded dwelling places, as for the waving fog on the peaks, grove, trees and plants, are all a portrayal of early spring, this painting is a masterpiece in monumental (landscape) painting, an archaic seal (is) in the corner.”
Both connoisseurs evaluated Early Spring as a “top class” work or a “masterpiece” and both mentioned the painter’s precise comprehension of the characteristics of the (early) spring, which denoted Guo Xi’s qualities of the long-term observation and perception of Nature, as well as the skillful artistic techniques as being an esteemed court painter in the 11th century. Guo Xi (ca. 1000-ca.1087), literati name Chunfu, was the eminent academic painter and artistic theorist in the Northern Song royal academy of painting and was active during the reign of the emperor Shenzong, Zhao Xu (1048-1085). Guo Xi was born in Wenxian in Heyang (the present Henan provence); therefore, he was regarded as Guo Heyang by his contemporary acquaintances as well. His Son, Guo Si (active in 11th-12th century), compiled the father’s most prominent landscape teachings into text, which is titled in Linquan gaozhi (林泉高致the lofty truth of forest and stream). The precise age of Guo Xi is unknown, however, by means of a commentary from Yuan Haowen’s (1190-1257)’s Yishan ji (遗山集, collection of secluded mountains), it can be assumed that Guo Xi was born around 1000. Guo Xi was highly appreciated by the emperor Shenzong. An anecdote recorded in Huaji (画继) by Deng Chun (act. in 12th c.) revealed that the emperor decorated a whole palace exclusively with Guo’s paintings. Zhao Xu became emperor at the age of nineteen in 1067. After five years, in 1072, Guo Xi finished the monumental landscape painting Early Spring. It can be assumed that the Early spring, regarding its title, symbolizes an expectation of auspiciousness and prosperity of the country and the imperial reign.
In the Early Spring, Guo Xi depicted a scene of spectacular mountains that abound with gnarled pines and crystal-clear waterfalls enveloped by the billowing mist in early spring. Travelers are walking on the winding paths towards the secluded buildings in the mountains; on the riverbank at the foot of the mountains families and fishers are likely going home after having finished their mundane business. Mountains, water, plants, living beings and architecture comprise the natural environment in the Early Spring.
The Mountain is the dominant component of the entire landscape. Murashige formulated that the commutable orders and chaos coexist in the mountains, where the ordered symmetric composition, structured landscape, hierarchic positions (of the mountains and trees), and the moving, flowing mist and cascades in the gorges, the transformative perspectives of the mountains, as well as the spontaneous artistic conceptions form a harmonic ideal landscape.
The mountains in the Early Spring, where the trees and water were born, can be outlined as two overlapping triangles with a pattern of infinite S-lines. (Fig.2) On the center peak at the bottom triangle grows a pair of erect old pines that are embraced by various twisty trees. The middle pines appear differently than the others, not only by their upright posture, but also by the meticulously depicted pine needles. The trees surrounding them all tilt downwards, some gnarled and some covered by vines and flat foliage. In the chill wind of early spring, most of the trees have not sprouted yet, their branches look like stretched hawk’s claws (Fig.3). The hawk claw stroke (yingzhao cun鹰爪皴) used here pertains to one of Guo Xi’s characteristic painting techniques that he absorbed from Li Cheng (919- ca.967). Cao Shao (active in 14th century), a connoisseur, had evaluated Guo Xi’s hawk claw stroke as “excellent” in Gegu yaolun (格古要论Essential Criteria of Antiquities), the oldest extant treatise of antiquity identification.
Although the trees remain dry like in winter, the water is where the spring emerges. There are already streams appearing in the riverbed on the left-hand side. The snow has melted, the water is flowing down along the mountain and forming into small cascades that splash as if one could hear the sound of spring. All the water merges into the river around the mountain at the bottom. Another form of water is the formless mist, which plays a major role in the painting, that surrounds “the mountain [which] without haze and clouds is like spring without flower and grasses.” Guo Xi has presented the mist in two ways. In the part of the transparent substance, such as the sky, the mist and water are all left blank; the opaque substance, the trees and mountains that are far from the viewers are silhouetted by extremely light ink (Fig.4). With such delicate brush strokes, Guo Xi created the effect of the vaporing mist, giving the mountain a mysterious yet vibrant atmosphere. The ancient ones believed that mist was two types of water vapor derived from the surface of the earth or from the sky. According to the record in liji (礼记Book of Rites), the vapor appears in a similar form: “In a month of meng-spring, the vapor of heaven falls, the vapor of earth arises, (as soon as the) heaven and earth merge, the grass and trees emerge.” “Mengchun” (孟春 first-spring), referring to the initial month in the Chinese lunar calendar which falls around February in the Gregorian calendar, is exactly the season depicted in the Early Spring. Since then, the snow melts, the temperature and humidity gradually rise, which causes the forming of mist through water evaporation. Although the ancient in China explained mist in terms of qi (气cosmic force) from the sky and earth, this observation is consistent with the laws of physics, proving the ancients’ precise observation of physical phenomenon in Nature. Qi has gradually developed into a concept describing a vital energy or force in Chinese traditional culture and has profoundly influenced such diverse fields as religion, literature, painting, Chinese medicine, Chinese geomancy etc.
	Going back to the mountain, we can see that the mountains’ form resembles a Boshan incense burner (Fig.5). In such view, the center of balance lies at the apex of the pair of giant pines, where the overlapping part of the two triangles situates (see Fig.2). In Guo Xi’s teaching: “To discover the overall layout of rivers and valleys in a real landscape, you look at them from a distance. To discover their individual characteristics, you look at them from nearby.” Based on this, Guo Xi immersed the further mountains in the mist to show their magnificence while he paid more attention to the textures and qualities of the front mountains with darker ink strokes and more details. The front mountains are divided into two layers. Five relatively small mountains flank the giant one, which are analogous to the distribution of the trees atop. The higher mountain behind them is located on the other side of the riverbank. However, from the viewer’s point of view, it integrates in the front mountains as an entire unity, which provides a successive rhythm of mountain ridges. Most of the human activities, such as travelers, fishers, and buildings are ongoing within these two parts. Guo Xi applied the “rolling clouds stroke” (juanyun cun 卷云皴) to express the texture of the mountains and boulders in Li Cheng’s style (Fig.6), in which the texture of rocks imitates the flowing clouds with their contours in predominant light ink. However, Guo Xi has tried to seek a balance between rock and soil by utilizing more dark ink to emphasize the solidity of the boulders. In the Chinese landscape painting, the rocks and earth as for Nature are bones and flesh for a man. In a metaphoric and anthropomorphic way, Guo Xi explained his criteria in drawing boulders, that the bones will show if one concentrates on stones and it will be over-fleshy if one concentrates on earth. The cloud-like boulders keep the mountains free of an angular expression of hardness and deliver a sense of fleshy vibrancy to the viewers. The moist and translucent thick contours of the mountain embody an alternating rhythm flowing around in the painting. The brush strokes can be recognized not only as outlines, but also as shadows, dark facets of the boulders, or the edge of the water simultaneously (Fig.7 and Fig.8). 
Guo Xi explained this changing rhythm regarding the principles in the expression as “moving step by step, observing side by side”(bubu yi mianmian guan步步移面面观), meaning “the changing aspects of different times are not same”, which explains the changeable perspectives for the walking travelers in the mountain. Su Shi (1037-1101), the renowned literati of the Northern Song, conveyed the same principle in one of his philosophical poems “Written on the Wall at West Forest Temple (1084)”:

It’s a range viewed in face and peaks viewed from the side,
Assuming different shapes viewed from far and wide.
Of Mountain Lu we cannot make out the true face,
For we are lost in the heart of the very place.
The poem is metaphorical, which reveals that the fact may vary, due to the position where one stands; additionally, one should be cautious to avoid one-sidedness in observing and evaluating facts. This idea derives from the Neo-Confucian philosophy, which has developed since the Six Dynasties period (222-589) and engaged in philosophical discussions of truth and reality, being and nonbeing, substantiality and nonsubstantiality. The implement of such principles in the Early Spring reflect one of its fundamental concepts, “gewu zhizhi” (格物致知 the investigation of things leading to the perfection of knowledge). The sceneries in the painting depict not only the change of the natural environment, but also alludes to the philosophical understanding of Nature in Guo Xi’s contemporary society.
Guo Xi implements the principles into visual expression by applying the “three types of distance” method i.e., the scattered perspective, to portray different sceneries of the mountain simultaneously. The high distance method (see Fig.4) is supposed to delineate the overall layout of the misty mountain in the far back in order to reveal its height and grandness. Its ink appears clear and bright. The deep distance method (Fig.9 and Fig.10) is applied in the flat riverbed on the left and gorges where the buildings lie on the other side. The mountains are partly hidden behind the rivers and buildings, by which the spatial depth is lengthened through the effect regarding the S-rhythm, so the color of ink is more obscure. The level distance method (Fig.11) that has been utilized in the lower mountains creates a panoramic view of the central mountain, where one sees the scene of “a great mountain [which] is dominating as chief over the assembled hills, there by ranking in an ordered arrangement the ridges and peaks […]”. The ink color combines both qualities, depending on how light and dark interact respectively on the rocks. As viewers, we are standing on a spot of a vanishing point in respective of the mountains in the painting, which is exactly the opposite to the Western linear perspective, in other words, each spot where a distance method is applied counts as a vanishing point and there are at least four vanishing points in the Early Spring. (Fig.12) This approach essentially precludes the possibility of a “pure realism” in the Early Spring. However, the painting derives from Nature but is above Nature which demands a high quality of the painter in observing, precepting and constructing space to create a landscape that seems naturalistic to the viewer. 
The “three types of distance” method mentioned above primarily determines the perspective of viewing the mountain, while geomancy (fengshui风水) determines the location of the mountains and the way they interact with humans. The word fengshui itself, literally wind-water, indicates its correlation with Nature. Bruun summarizes the essence of fengshui as “configurations of landforms and bodies of water [that] are seen to direct the flow of the universal qi […], which with the help of specialist can be brought to optimum advantage for a person’s wealth, happiness, longevity and procreation […].”. If we view the Early Spring in aspect of geomancy, it is to note that the ridges of the mountains meander like a winding dragon. The “dragon vein” (longmai龙脉) generally refers to the high winding mountains that resemble the form of a dragon, but could also indicate several specific mountain chains, such as the Kunlun Mountains, which span over expansive lands of China like venations. These mountains are commonly considered fortunate and blessed due to their preeminent natural environment and potential of qi, they are deemed as auspicious siting of dwelling. Chinese people are concerned about the condition of fengshui when selecting a residence. The geomantic practice is applied to appoint two forms of dwelling, one is yang dwelling (houses) for living, the other is yin dwelling (tomb) for the dead. The idioms that correlate to these places often contain the characters “mountain” and “water”, such as yishan bangshui (依山傍水near the mountain and water) and shanhuan shuibao (山环水抱surrounded by mountain and water). In addition, Guo Xi proposed four criteria for assessing the landscape, he said: “[…] in landscapes there are those through which you may travel […], sightsee, […] wander, and live […]. Any paintings attaining these effects are to be considered excellent […]”. In the next sentence, he emphasizes the significance of “wander” and “live” due to the scarcity of “wanderable” and “livable” sceneries.
The four criteria allude to that an excellent landscape must associate with the human activities. Guo Xi said: “On mountains, figures indicate paths and roads”. Altogether we are able to find thirteen people who live or travel in the mountains. On the riverbank at the left bottom, a woman holding her baby looks back to her boat, as if she had forgotten anything there (Fig.13). Her companion, possibly the elder son/daughter carrying the suspended containers follows her. The little dog scampers towards their thatched cottage hidden behind the mountain, where there is one of the dwelling siting in the painting. On the contrary side, two fishermen are coming ashore with fishnets (Fig.14). Guo Xi said: “Fishing skiffs and tackle hint at human interests”. These two groups may be a family that is coming back home after the daily work. The symmetric distribution of man and woman corresponds with the principle of hierarchic position in traditional Chinese under the influence of Confucianism, according to which man stands left and woman stands right. Both groups are heading towards the central mountains. There are two ideas embedded in this scene. On the one hand, the behavior of “going back home” indicates the time at the moment, which is a behavior of reunion for the families at the end of the day. It also alludes to a nostalgia of an expectation of the reclusion, which is a conventional theme of landscape painting and literati painting. Guo Xi implied the ambivalent attitudes to the reclusion in the beginning of chapter Significance of Landscape, that under a “high-minded ruler, […] purifying oneself is of little significance and office-holding is allied to honor.” Then he asks a rhetorical question: “Can anyone of humanitarian instinct then thread aloof or retire afar in order to practice a retreat from worldly affairs?” He symbolizes the great mountains and pines as an embodiment of the emperor and the gentleman, so far, “walking towards the mountain” obviously reveals the obedience and allegiance of the civilians to the emperor. However, we would not know what Guo Xi’s true attitude is toward the reclusion in his heart. What he intended to show in the painting is that the scene on the bottom riverbank depicts an epitome of a secular society where the civilians live contentedly in the beautiful landscape under the reign of the supreme emperor, which reveals the ultimate aspiration of the Confucian rulers. 
	When we look up further, two men who wear giant thatched rain-hats and carry a bunch of baggage mark where the path of the higher mountain starts (Fig.15). They are placed on the lower end of the diagonal line that goes across the whole painting. Although they have no accompanying animals, at the top end of the diagonal line, an eagle/vulture flies down, resonating with the travelers on the ground. The men are either Buddhistic monks or Daoist priests who are practicing in the mountain or seeking teaching (Fig.16). Walking onwards along the road, another group of people appears on a bridge behind the giant boulders. Due to Linquan gaozhi: “bridge hint at human activity”, the bridge characterizes an integration of human activity with the natural environment, which renders the Nature being “travelable” for man. On the bridge, a literati atop a donkey with solely half his body visible is talking to his servant with his back to the viewer. The two servants carry the books and supplements with the suspended containers. Behind the central mountain, two more travelers are about to enter the deep gorge (Fig.17). Their figures are immersed in the mist in a nearly transparent color of ink. One of the travelers raises his head and is gazing out over the distant buildings. In comparison with the thatched cottage, the buildings on the mountains are built magnificently in the format of palaces or temples of the immortals. These groups of people represent the social class of literati, or shi (士the educated) and the religious monks or priests that have a spiritual pursuit. In comparison with the civilians on the riverbank, they are hiking up the mountains and seeking higher intelligent value above the secular affairs. The secluded palaces and temples are precisely the destination for the gentleman’s thirst for forest and streams. 
	According to Linquan gaozhi, every gentleman has the “thirst for forest and streams” (linquan zhi xin 林泉之心). This “thirst” speaks of the pursuit of retreating Nature after being bored with secular bridles. In the beginning of the Significance of Landscape, Guo Xi lists several affairs to which the gentleman’s nature aspires, the enjoyment of fishing and woodcutting, the intimacy with the animals, and the lifestyle of the immortals and sages. The fishermen and woodcutters live an austere life, living off Nature without the distractions of fame and gold; the animals show the unrestrained nature of living beings in Nature; the immortals and sages represent the flawless moral cultivation sought by the gentlemen. However, a gentleman should perform his duty in contributing to the secular world with his land, so the landscape painting becomes a gentleman’s temporary secluded place back to Nature through spirit, from which the authenticity of landscape and the “wanderableness” and “livableness” in the landscape are significant. In contrast to the view that is bringing the natural force under the control of man, the “Early Spring” rather conveys man’s search of dependence on the primitivity of Nature. 

The Dao and Anthropomorphism Embedded in the Early Spring
The Confucian ethics was rebuilt by Neo-Confucian thinkers on Buddhist and Daoist metaphysics. The idea of “the unity of man and heaven” essentially assimilated the principle of which the cosmos is derived by the interaction of yin and yang in Daoism. Guo Si had discussed that how the sayings of Analects of Confucius and Book of Changes influenced the way of painting in the introduction of Linquan gaozhi, and before Guo Xi became a painter, he believed in Daoism and traveled around the land. Guo Xi had designed the form of the landscape by means of the Daoist philosophy in Early Spring. The pairs of pines appear on each of the peaks, resonating with the central pines. The rocks and water take shape in similar brush strokes, the forms and objects reflect their neighbors ubiquitously. If we divide the mountains by the diagonal gorge into two parts, the mountains reveal a contrast between sparse and dense structures, light and dark in color; if we divide them by the central axis, both sides climb up along the dragon’s ridge by projecting and receding back and forth. If the objects on the left half project, the other side recedes, such as the cloud-like boulder on the left side of the central mountains versus the cascades on the right, and the far distant riverbed versus the crowded architecture hidden in the mountain (Fig.18). This zigzag movement resembles the spinning of yin and yang, which reveals the infinity in Nature that is born in the cycled duality. This leads to an idea that the Early Spring stands at the turning point of an annual cycle of the reawakening mountain. It is a beginning, as well as an end, of the universe in Early Spring. As Wen Fong interpreted concerning the structure of mountains in Early Spring, particularly the mid-area, he suggested that the mid-area of the mountains, which is concealed by mist show structural ambiguities, however, the painting transmits an expression in believing the landscape to be a “living being that embodies nature’s primoradial forces.”
In fact, Guo Xi has implicated the vitality of Nature in Linquan Gaozhi. He taught theories of painting by means of anthropomorphism and applied anthropomorphism to characterize the anthropic features embedded in the landscape in several levels. The first level refers to the physical characteristic of humans. The landscape is seen as man’s body in the Chinese painting convention: “A mountain has water as blood, foliage as hair, haze and clouds as its spirit and character. […] Such is the interaction (structure) of mountain and water (landscape).” Based on this conception, Guo Xi describes the mountains with human actions: spring mountains seem to smile, autumn mountains array in colorful garment, winter mountains are asleep. It can be described by emotions of man as well: “In spring mountains, […] people are full of joy. In summer mountains, […] people are full of satisfaction. In autumn mountains, […] men are full of melancholy. In winter mountains, […] men are full of loneliness”. Moreover, the rolling cloud stroke mentioned in the previous texts has the alias “monster face stroke” (guimian cun鬼面皴), because the piling up of rocks and plants represents the facial features of old men or monsters. The technique has also been applied in the folk painting, as well as the religious painting after the 11th century. In the second level, Guo Xi proposes an analogy between mountains and trees with the hierarchic structure of the social class as discussed in the previous text. The most evident examples are how he stipulated the position of the leading peak and trees in a landscape painting: “A great mountain is dominating as chief over the assembled hills, […] the general appearance is of a great lord glorious on his throne and a hundred princes hastening to pay him court. A tall pine stands erect as the mark of all other trees. […] (It) is a nobleman (gentleman) dazzling in his prime with all lesser mortals in his service.” In a further level, not only the landscape, but also the heaven and earth (i.e., the universe) are personalized: “Rocks are nature (heaven and earth)’s bone […]. Water is nature (heaven and earth)’s blood.” Thus, for the landscape painters in the 11th century, Nature is, on the one hand, the earth where the humans and all the other lives dwell, on the other hand, Nature is seen as spiritual, which possesses the vibrant forces as human and has blood and flesh. The substantial principles of Nature and man are interchangeable. Therefore, Guo Xi comments in Linquan gaozhi, that painting is not as easy as it looks. The painter must treat the painting process as a ritual instead of duplicating what he sees. Before one paints, he should “loosen his clothes and sit with his legs spread out really got to the point of a painter’s method (and) […] nourish in your bosom a state of relaxed alterness” until “your mind becomes fully calm, upright, loving, and sincere.” With such prerequisites of mind, the characteristics of objects will “spontaneously order themselves in your mind and appear without effort under your brush.” 

Conclusion
Guo Xi lived in a time when Neo-Confucianism was flourishing. He implemented the principle of “gewu zhizhi” (the investigation of things leading to the perfection of knowledge) in his observation of the natural environment, applying the method of scattered perspective to reveal the magnificence of the landscape from diverse angles. However, the fundamental idea that Guo Xi aimed to convey in the Early Spring is the humanistic conceptions under the influence of the idea of “unity of man and heaven”. Guo Xi had constantly emphasized the interdependence between man and Nature in both Early Spring and Linquan gaozhi and proposed the significant criteria for an excellent landscape as “travelable”, “sightsee-able” “wanderable” and “livable”. In addition, Guo Xi pointed out the spirituality of Nature on different levels through anthropomorphism, denoting that humans do not only perceive Nature as dwelling place, Nature itself has an equivalent vitality as man, thus, the substantial force within the man and Nature are interchangeable. 
By analyzing Early Spring, we discovered an ecological view that is entirely different from Marxist materialism. Recently, most of the natural objects and phenomena can be explained by the advanced, objective modern physics. However, the objectiveness has rendered the humans to exploit the natural resources and break the ecological balance without concerning the “feeling” of Nature. Nevertheless, the way the ancient Chinese treated Nature may provide some inspiration for environmentalism in the 21st century. To seek newness from oldness, to progress from the ancient wisdom is why we must study history.


Bibliography

Bruun, Ole. Fengshui in China: Geomantic Divination Between State Orthodoxy and Popular Religion. NIAS Press, 2003.
Bush, Susan, and Hsio-yen Shih. Early Chinese Texts on Painting. Hong Kong University Press, 2012.
Cao Zhao. “Gegu yaolun (格古要论Treatise of Antiquities Identification),” 1388. Accessed March 28 https://ctext.org/wiki.pl?if=gb&res=632167&searchu=%E9%83%AD%E7%86%99&remap=gb.
Ensign, J. Adam, and Xiaolu Kang. “Poem by Su Shi (‘Wall Inscription at West Forest Temple’), The Palace Museum.” Accessed March 26, 2022. https://en.dpm.org.cn/collections/collections/2021-05-08/5986.html.
“Erya (尔雅‘a Chinese Dictionary’),” 3rd century BC., Accessed March 30 https://ctext.org/er-ya/zhs?searchu=%E5%A4%A9%E6%B0%94%E4%B8%8B.
Fong, Wen. Beyond Representation: Chinese Painting and Calligraphy, 8th-14th Century. New York: Metropolitan Museum of Art; Yale University Press, 1992.
———. Summer Mountains: The Timeless Landscape. New York: Metropolitan Museum of Art, 1975.
“Liji (礼记 Book of Rites).” Accessed March 31, 2022. https://ctext.org/liji/yue-ling/zhs.
Marx, Karl, and Friedrich Engels. Capital. Moscow: Progress Publishers, 1965.
Murashige, Stanley. “Rhythm, Order, Change, and Nature in Guo Xi’s Early Spring.” Monumenta Serica 43 (1995): 337–64.
Sturgeon, Donald. “山水训.” Accessed March 21, 2022. https://ctext.org/wiki.pl?if=en&chapter=430059.
Sturman, Peter C. “The Donkey Rider as Icon: Li Cheng and Early Chinese Landscape Painting.” Artibus Asiae 55, no. 1/2 (1995): 43. https://doi.org/10.2307/3249762.
Su Shi. “Dongpo qiji (东坡七集 Seven Collection of Dongpo), Guangxu Vol.5, 121.” Chinese Text Project. Accessed March 21, 2022. https://ctext.org/library.pl?if=gb&file=100764&page=121.
Wang, Zhuoran. “Biaoxian yu guankan: Guo Xi <Zaochun Tu> yanjiu 表现与观看：郭熙《早春图》研究 (Performance and Appreciation: A Study On Guo Xi’s Early Spring).” Doctoral Dissertation, East China Normal University, 2014.
Yuan Haowen. “Yishan ji (遗山集 Colloction of Secluded Mountain), Vol. 3 - Vol.6, 70.” Accessed March 28, 2022. https://ctext.org/library.pl?if=gb&file=67641&page=70&remap=gb.
Zhang, Peng. “Dachao zhixia de qianliu — ‘Linquan gaozhi, shanshui xun’ zhong de nirenhua lunshu ji qi yu fangshu de guanlian (大潮之下的潜流——《林泉高致·山水训》中的拟人化论述及其与方术的关联 Undercurrents under the Great Tide--An Anthropomorphic Discourse in ‘Linquan Gaozhi, Landscape Instructions’ and its Connection with Mystic Arts).” Journal of Xingjiang Arts Institute 19, no. 01 (2021): 75–83.
Zhao Chun. “Huaji (画继 Collection of Painting and Calligraphy),” 12th century. Acessed March 28, 2022. https://ctext.org/library.pl?if=gb&res=86951.
Zhao Yi. “Gaiyu congkao (陔馀丛考 Textual Research <that is written in the spare time after taking care of his Mother> ).” Accessed March 30, 2022. https://ctext.org/wiki.pl?if=gb&res=261318&searchu=%E5%B0%8A%E5%B7%A6&remap=gb.
Zhao, Yu, and Fandong Kong. “Cong ‘li’ wenhua shiyu kan gudai hanzu nanzi ‘shufa weiji’从‘礼’文化视阈看古代汉族男子‘束发为髻’ (To interpret the  ancient Han Chinese male’s hair bound in the cultural perspective of ‘rites’).” Journal of Donghua University (Social Science) 19, no. 04 (2019): 396–401.


Figures


Fig. 1 Guo Xi (ca. 1000- ca. 1080). Early Spring, 1072. Hanging scroll on silk, 158.3 cm x 108.1 cm, National Palace Museum, Taipei

Fig. 2 Analysis of composition of Fig.1

Fig. 3 Details of Fig.1. The hawk claw stroke.


Fig. 4 Detail of Fig.1

Fig. 5 Mountain-Shaped Incense Burner (Boshan Xianglu), Han dynasty (206 B.C. -A.D. 220), 1st century B.C./A.D.,Bronze, H. 21.3 cm x diam. 19.4 cm, The Art Institute of Chicago, Chicago


Fig. 6 Attributed to Li Cheng (919-ca.967), dubei keshi tu (读碑窠石图 reading stele and honeycomb-like rocks), 10th century, ink on silk, mounted size 126.3 cm x 104.9 cm, Osaka City Museum of Fine Arts, Osaka

Fig. 7.1 Detail of Fig.1




Fig. 8 Detail of Fig.1

Fig. 9 Detail of Fig.1. Deep distance method (1)


Fig. 10 Detail of Fig.1. Deep distance method (2)

Fig. 11 Detail of Fig.1. Level distance method

Fig. 12 Scattered Perspective in Early Spring, see Fig.1

Fig. 13 Detail of Fig.1

Fig. 14 Detail of Fig.1

Fig. 15 Detail of Fig.1
                  
Fig. 16 Detail of Fig.1                                Fig. 17 Detail of Fig.1


Fig. 18 projection and recession of the mountains’ rhythm

